Document linked devices (#125)
memfault/memfault-docs: docs/platform/projects-and-fleets.mdx

---
id: projects-and-fleets
title: Projects and Fleets
sidebar_label: Projects and Fleets
---

## What is a Project, and what is a Fleet?

A **Project** is the umbrella under which Memfault organizes all the data
related to a particular hardware product. Individual **Devices** check in
periodically to the Project via the Memfault API, and the set of all checked-in
Devices is called the **Fleet**.

A Fleet often consists of homogeneous devices, like a certain model of an AC
unit or a games console. Fleets may also consist of different but related
devices, for example left and right wireless earbuds. We recommend keeping
different revisions of the same hardware in the same Project, so that revisions
can be easily compared later.

Within each Memfault Project you can:

- [Monitor Fleet-wide metrics](./fleet-wide-metrics.mdx)
- [Inspect and debug individual Devices](./inspecting-a-device.mdx)

> - Deploy new firmware/software updates to parts of your Fleet

Reviewer: Add links to the "Release Management" pages under MCU Guides / Android Guides?

refer to that in the project creation docs, instead of duplicating it.
-->

## Organizing your Fleet

### Cohorts

You can slice your Fleet into mutually exclusive **Cohorts**, for example a
`beta` Cohort and a `production` Cohort. Cohorts are perfect for releasing new
firmware versions to a small test group, before pushing it out to customers.
Cohorts also lend themselves to things like light A/B testing, or deploying
slight variations of the firmware to different Device revisions within a
Project.

:::note

As you may have noticed already, Cohorts are meant to help you deploy the right
software to the right Devices at the right time. Devices can only belong to one
cohort at a time.

:::

<!-- TODO: how does one create cohorts, how do devices end up in them? -->

### Device Sets

It is often useful to search for devices that fulfill certain criteria and to
keep track of the number of matches over time. Examples of this could be
searching for devices that:

1. have not communicated with Memfault within the last N days,
2. are running a deprecated software version, or
3. are reporting a metric over a critical threshold

> This kind of followup can easily be done by defining a **Device Set**, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This kind of follow-up can easily be done by defining a **Device Set**, which
```
